Editorial review: Document border-shape (#44191)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/border-shape/index.md

      curve to 1.31% 62.04% with 13.5% 81.75%/3.98% 76.64%,
      curve to 2.45% 25.55% with -0.59% 49.64%/-0.59% 37.96%,
      curve to 50.08% 0% with 6.26% 8.76%/27.22% 0%,
      close
    )
    content-box;

  text-align: center;
  line-height: 4;

  position: absolute;
  position-anchor: --leopard;
  bottom: anchor(top);
  left: anchor(right);
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("speech-bubble-demo", "100%", "240")}}

The `border-shape` property has two different modes:

- If a single basic shape is provided in the value, that shape defines the border shape of the element, with defined border styles drawn as a stroke around the shape. This is known as **stroke mode**.
- If two basic shapes are provided in the value, the first shape defines the outer boundary of the border, the second shape defines in inner boundary of the border, and any defined border color fills the area between the two. This is known as **fill mode**.

> [!NOTE]
> It doesn't make sense to define a bigger shape for the inner boundary than the outer boundary. If you do this, the border area does not render properly; you might end up with no border fill rendered, or one shape rendered behind the other.

> 

Reviewer: - it would help to have the description of the 2 modes and the note before the  "speech bubbles" example. The readers would then also be able to relate to the stroke mode being shown in the example
- change note to a direct "what not to do"

```suggestion
The `border-shape` property has the following two modes:

- If a single `<basic-shape>` is provided in the value, that shape defines the shape of the element's border, with the defined border styles drawn as a stroke around the shape. This is known as **stroke mode**.
- If two `<basic-shape>`s are provided in the value, the first shape defines the outer boundary of the border, the second shape defines the inner boundary of the border, and any defined border color fills the area between the two boundaries. This is known as **fill mode**.

> [!NOTE]
> Avoid defining a shape for the inner boundary that's larger than the outer boundary. If you do this, the border area does not render properly; you might end up with no border fill rendered or one shape rendered behind the other.
```

Author: I've mostly used your wording here, as it is super fine. However, I've kept it where it is, as I wanted to show the example up front, and then explain it. It feels a bit odd to explain too much without any kind of visual.

To make the section flow better, I updated the sentence preceding the example to:

> This allows precise creation of speech bubbles and abstract tooltip shapes that play well with other styles defined on the element, without resorting to hacks. For example:

And I updated the bullet describing the first mode type to:

> - If a single `<basic-shape>` is provided in the value, that shape defines the shape of the element's border, with the defined border styles drawn as a stroke around the shape, as shown in the previous example. This is known as **stroke mode**.

> Optionally, you can include a [`<geometry-box>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#geometry-box) keyword after each `<basic-shape>` value, to specify the reference box the shapes should be drawn relative to.

Reviewer: This should probably be placed after the two modes and before the note...otherwise, "optionally" loses its anchor. And also perhaps can be rephrased to:
```suggestion
You can also include an optional [`<geometry-box>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#geometry-box) keyword after each `<basic-shape>` value to specify the reference box relative to which the shapes should be drawn.
```

Author: Your rewrite is great; however, I've moved it up to just after the basic shapes list at the top of the description. It seemed to fit better there.

Reviewer: It does look better after the functions list

> The `border-shape` creates a purely visual effect — the element's layout is still computed using the underlying rectangular box definition, and the content flow is not affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `border-shape` property creates a purely visual effect — the element's layout is still computed using the underlying rectangular box definition, and the content flow is not affected.
```

> The content and background of the element is clipped by the `border-shape` (inner shape, in fill mode). When the shape you are specifying is the same size or smaller than the content/background, you don't tend to need to adjust the reference box, unless you want to create some kind of offset effect. However, when the shape you are specifying is larger than the content/background, you will see gaps between the edge of the background and the shape(s). In such cases, you may need to employ a different reference box to fix the display (see [Handling backgrounds inside larger border-shapes](#handling_backgrounds_inside_larger_border-shapes) for more information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The element's content and background are clipped by the `border-shape` property (the inner shape in fill mode). When the specified shape is the same size or smaller than the content/background, you won't need to adjust the reference box unless you want to create some kind of offset effect. However, when the specified shape is larger than the content/background, you will see gaps between the edge of the background and the shape(s). In such cases, you may need to use a different reference box to fix the display (see [Handling backgrounds inside larger border-shapes](#handling_backgrounds_inside_larger_border-shapes) for more information).
```

### Limitations on border styles applied to border shapes

> There are several limitations on the styles that will be applied to borders with a `border-shape` property set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several limitations on the styles that will be applied to borders on elements with a `border-shape` property set:
```

On second thoughts, since the list that follows has many "Not applied" entries, we should rephrase the lead-in, something along these lines:

```suggestion
Not all border styles are applied to elements with a `border-shape` property set. The following list explains how each property is affected:
```

- {{cssxref("border-image")}}: Not applied.
- {{cssxref("border-style")}}: Not applied. All borders are rendered with a `solid` style.
- {{cssxref("border-color")}}: Border color is applied, however when different colors are applied to different edges of the element, the browser chooses the first edge it finds that has a border color applied, in the following order:
  - Block start edge
  - Inline start edge
  - Block end edge
  - Inline end edge

>   It then applies that edge's border color to the entire rendered border.

Reviewer: - Can we start the list with `border-color` and also follow an alphabetical order in the list?
- "different colors are applied to different edges" -> are we trying to say "multiple edges have different border colors"?
- To tie the last line more explicitly back to `border-shape`, should we spell out the property instead of "entire rendered border"?

```suggestion
- {{cssxref("border-color")}}: This property is applied. However, when different colors are applied to different edges of the element, the browser chooses the first edge with a border color, in the following order:
  - Block start edge
  - Inline start edge
  - Block end edge
  - Inline end edge

  The browser then applies that edge's border color to the entire rendered border.
```

Author: I agree with all of this. I've used your wording and made a bunch of changes to the section to implement your other suggestions.

- {{cssxref("border-width")}}: In stroke mode, border width is applied directly to the rendered border. When different widths are applied to different edges of the element, the browser selects a width to apply to the entire rendered border using the same process as described for `border-color`.

>   In fill mode, the border area is defined by the difference in area between the outer and inner shapes, therefore `border-width` doesn't have any direct effect on the rendered border width. However, it does have an indirect effect — it still affects the size of the reference boxes the shapes are drawn relative to (unless you set their `<geometry-box>` keywords to `content-box` or `padding-box`), therefore you still need to be mindful of the `border-width` set on the underlying element while using fill mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("border-width")}}: In stroke mode, `border-width` is applied directly to the rendered border. When multiple edges have different border widths, the browser selects a width to apply to the entire rendered border using the same process as described for `border-color`.

  In fill mode, the border area is defined by the difference between the areas of the outer and inner shapes; therefore, `border-width` doesn't have any direct effect on the width of the rendered border. However, it does have an indirect effect — it still affects the size of the reference boxes the shapes are drawn relative to (unless you set their `<geometry-box>` to `content-box` or `padding-box`), though you still need to be mindful of the `border-width` set on the underlying element while using fill mode.
```

As an example, if an element has the following declarations applied:

```css
border-shape: rect(5px 198px 189px 0px round 20px);
border-bottom: 30px dashed blue;
border-left: 40px dotted hotpink;
border-right: 50px double yellow;
```

> The rendered box will have a rectangular border with rounded corners. The border style will be `solid`, as other styles are ignored. The border width and color will be `40px` and `hotpink`, because the `border-left` property applies styles to the inline start edge (assuming that the page has a horizontal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}) and that is the first edge with border styles applied in the browser's priority list described earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rendered box will have a rectangular border with rounded corners. The border style will be `solid` because other styles are ignored. The border width and color will be `40px` and `hotpink`, respectively – this is because the `border-left` property applies styles to the inline start edge (assuming that the page has a horizontal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}), which is the first edge with border styles; this gets chosen by the browser per the priority list described earlier.
```

  )
  view-box;

/* Global values */
border-shape: inherit;
border-shape: initial;
border-shape: revert;
border-shape: revert-layer;
border-shape: unset;
```

The `border-shape` property may be specified using the keyword `none`, or one or two space-separated shape definitions, each consisting of a `<basic-shape>` value or a `<basic-shape>` value and a `<geometry-box>` value.

### Values

- `none`
  - : Specifies that no border shape is defined. This is the initial value.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape")}}
  - : Defines the shape of the border using one of the `<basic-shape>` functions.
- [`<geometry-box>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#geometry-box) {{optional_inline}}
  - : Defines the reference box relative to which the border shape is drawn. If not included, the shape's reference geometry box defaults to:
    - `half-border-box` if a single basic shape is specified, which means that any defined border is drawn on top of the shape path, with the path going down its center.
    - `border-box` for the first (outer) shape and `padding-box` for the second (inner) shape if two basic shapes are specified. The border then occupies the area between the two shapes.

> ## Description

Reviewer: I would suggest breaking up this long section into multiple sub-sections to group similar info and also help with the flow and readability. For example, currently the flow from "You can also include an optional..." to "When you apply the.." is detached.

So, I'm suggesting we lead with the visual feature that we want to highlight about this prop (props follow shape of the border) + speech bubble. Followed by sub-sections for:
- "Supported shape functions"
- "Stroke and fill modes" (maybe move this before the function list?)
- "Effect on layout and rendering" - to hold the two paras: "The border-shape property creates a purely visual effect..." and "The element's content and background are clipped..."

Author: Yeah, I can see the point of this. I've added in some H3s, pretty much as you suggested

Reviewer: Wow! So much better now. Thanks

- {{cssxref("basic-shape/path","path()")}}: Defines any kind of shape using [SVG path](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Reference/Element/path) string syntax. SVG path syntax has limitations — it can use only pixel values and the path has to be defined as a single string, so custom properties can't be included via {{cssxref("var()")}}. You are advised to use `shape()` instead.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}}: Defines any kind of polygon via pairs of vertex coordinates. If your desired shape includes smooth curves, you are advised to use `shape()`.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/shape","shape()")}}: Defines any kind of shape. The syntax of `shape()` is more CSS-compatible than that of `path()` and solves its shortcomings.

You can also include an optional [`<geometry-box>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#geometry-box) keyword after each `<basic-shape>` value to specify the reference box relative to which the shapes should be drawn.

When you apply the `border-shape` property to an element, properties such as {{cssxref("border")}}, {{cssxref("box-shadow")}}, and {{cssxref("outline")}} defined on the element follow the shape of the border.

> This allows precise creation of speech bubbles and abstract tooltip shapes that play well with other styles defined on the element, without resorting to hacks. For example:

Reviewer: - These two paras can be combined since they are related
- Suggesting to replace "hacks" with "workarounds"
- From the live sample, I can only make out a speech bubble. Is there anything else being conveyed via this example that I'm missing?
- To give a more specific hint about what this example demos, can we add something like "Note how ..." to point out how the props follow the custom shape and what readers should observe?
- Lastly, what do you think about beginning the "Description" section with this prose and example? It seems to be the most important feature of this prop, and should probably precede the list of functions?
```suggestion
When you apply the `border-shape` property to an element, properties such as {{cssxref("border")}}, {{cssxref("box-shadow")}}, and {{cssxref("outline")}} defined on the element follow the shape of the border. This feature enables the precise creation of shapes such as speech bubbles, as shown here, or abstract tooltip shapes, which play well with other styles defined on the element, without having to use workarounds to produce the same effects.
```

Author: OK, I think I've answered all your feedback here. I've handled it differently from what was suggested, by breaking up the text and putting some of it above the live demo and some below. Let me know what you think.

I've also put it at the top of the "Description" section, as suggested.

Reviewer: Brilliant! Looks good. So then, did we rid of this sentence "When you apply the `border-shape` property to an element..."? I thought it was a good statement explainer.

Author: I'm not sure it is needed anymore, with the new text, but I've tweaked the "Description"'s opening sentence to add some of that explanation back in:

> The `border-shape` property can be applied to elements to create precisely shaped containers such as speech bubbles, as shown here, or abstract tooltip shapes, without having to use workarounds.

Reviewer: okay

  line-height: 4;

  position: absolute;
  position-anchor: --leopard;
  bottom: anchor(top);
  left: anchor(right);
}
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("speech-bubble-demo", "100%", "240")}}

The `border-shape` property has the following two modes:

- If a single `<basic-shape>` is provided in the value, that shape defines the shape of the element's border, with the defined border styles drawn as a stroke around the shape, as shown in the previous example. This is known as **stroke mode**.
- If two `<basic-shape>`s are provided in the value, the first shape defines the outer boundary of the border, the second shape defines the inner boundary of the border, and any defined border color fills the area between the two boundaries. This is known as **fill mode**.

> [!NOTE]
> Avoid defining a shape for the inner boundary that's larger than the outer boundary. If you do this, the border area does not render properly; you might end up with no border fill rendered or one shape rendered behind the other.

The `border-shape` property creates a purely visual effect — the element's layout is still computed using the underlying rectangular box definition, and the content flow is not affected.

> The element's content and background are clipped by the `border-shape` property (the inner shape in fill mode). When the specified shape is the same size or smaller than the content/background, you won't need to adjust the reference box unless you want to create some kind of offset effect. However, when the specified shape is larger than the content/background, you will see gaps between the edge of the background and the shape(s). In such cases, you may need to use a different reference box to fix the display (see [Handling backgrounds inside larger border-shapes](#handling_backgrounds_inside_larger_border-shapes) for more information).

Reviewer: I returned to this para while making a suggestion about not using "larger" in the section title (the link and link text will need to be updated here based on what you choose). But also, we can add these minor clarification (shape -> border-shape)
```suggestion
The element's content and background are clipped by the `border-shape` property (the inner shape in fill mode). When the specified `border-shape` is the same size or smaller than the content/background, you won't need to adjust the reference box, unless you want to create some kind of offset effect. However, when the specified `border-shape` is larger than the content/background, you will see gaps between the edge of the background and the shape(s). In such cases, you may need to use a different reference box to fix the display (see [Handling backgrounds inside larger border-shapes](#handling_backgrounds_inside_larger_border-shapes) for more information).
```

border-bottom: 30px dashed blue;
border-left: 40px dotted hotpink;
border-right: 50px double yellow;
```

The rendered box will have a rectangular border with rounded corners. The border style will be `solid` because other styles are ignored. The border width and color will be `40px` and `hotpink`, respectively – this is because the `border-left` property applies styles to the inline start edge (assuming that the page has a horizontal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}), which is the first edge with border styles; this gets chosen by the browser per the priority list described earlier.

### Interaction with `border-radius` and `corner-shape`

The {{cssxref("border-radius")}} and {{cssxref("corner-shape")}} properties are incompatible with `border-shape`. When a `border-shape` is set on an element, any set `border-radius` is ignored, therefore `corner-shape` will also have no effect. The `border-shape` and `border-radius`/`corner-shape` properties have different effects, and are used separately.

If you want to use shaped corners in a `border-shape`, you will have to draw them directly as part of the shape.

### `border-shape` versus `clip-path`

> The {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property takes similar values to `border-shape`, and produces similar effects — both properties can be used to change the shape of an element and therefore the element's hit area, altering the boundary of where `:hover` effects and pointer-related events will activate.

Reviewer: can we split this "altering the boundary" into a separate sentence and also expand on it a bit to help clarify (state more explicitly) that pointer interactions trigger based on the shape's new boundary 
```suggestion
The {{cssxref("clip-path")}} property takes values similar to `border-shape` and produces similar effects. Both properties can be used to change the shape of an element and therefore the element's hit area, altering the boundary inside which `:hover` effects and pointer-related events activate.
```

However, there is a fundamental difference in how the two properties work:

- `clip-path` hides the area of the element that sits outside the region defined by the provided shape.
- `border-shape` changes the visual rendering of the element so that it sits inside the region defined by the provided shape.

> This means that, whereas `border-shape` clips the element's content, allowing its display to be controlled by the {{cssxref("overflow")}} property, `clip-path` hides it altogether, meanng that overflow control is not possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means `border-shape` clips the element's content while still letting the {{cssxref("overflow")}} property control its display, whereas `clip-path` hides the element's content altogether, so overflow control is not possible.
```

> More significantly, properties such as `box-shadow` and `outline` will not follow the shape created by `clip-path` — it chops off the outside of the element, meaning that such effects are truncated in an ugly fashion, or removed altogether. The `border-shape` property on the other hand creates a differently-shaped border that is neatly followed by such effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More significantly, properties such as `box-shadow` and `outline` do not follow the shape created by `clip-path` — it chops off the outside of the element, meaning that such effects are truncated in an ugly fashion or removed altogether. The `border-shape` property, on the other hand, creates a differently-shaped border that is neatly followed by such effects.
```

> ### Handling backgrounds inside larger border-shapes

Reviewer: Trying to git rid of the comparative word "larger" in the title. What do you think about this:
```suggestion
### Handling background gaps when a `border-shape` overflows content
```

Author: I can see the issue here. Your suggestion isn't really correct (it is the content itself that overflows, and I don't think overflow is the issue here anyway).

I have changed it to:

> Handling border-shapes larger than the element's background

To make the comparative word usage more correct. WDYT?

Reviewer: ha, yes, its the content that overflows

The updated heading looks good 👍

    close
  )
  content-box;
padding: 24px;
```

This way, the `padding` will be set outside the shape, causing it to get smaller, and forcing the background to fill up the parts of the shape extending outside the content area. You can see this technique in action in our [Jigsaw navigation menu](#jigsaw_navigation_menu) example.

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Basic `border-shape` stroke usage

This example shows how to use `border-shape` in stroke mode.

#### HTML

The markup for this example contains a single {{htmlelement("p")}} element.

```html live-sample___basic-border-shape live-sample___basic-border-shape-fill
<p>Circle</p>
```

#### CSS

```css hidden live-sample___basic-border-shape live-sample___basic-border-shape-fill live-sample___border-shape-select live-sample___animate-border-shape
html {
  height: 100%;
}

body {
  margin: 0;
  height: inherit;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}

p {
  box-sizing: border-box;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.6rem;
  padding: 30px 50px;
  background-color: chartreuse;
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
}
```

> We give the box a {{cssxref("width")}} of `fit-content` and an {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} of `1/1` to neatly fit the content inside a square. We also set a thick black {{cssxref("border")}} and a {{cssxref("box-shadow")}}, before setting a {{cssxref("border-shape")}} of `circle(50%)` to create a circular border that neatly fits the content and background.

Reviewer: removing comma before "before"
```suggestion
We give the box a {{cssxref("width")}} of `fit-content` and an {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} of `1/1` to neatly fit the content inside a square. We also set a thick black {{cssxref("border")}} and a {{cssxref("box-shadow")}} before setting a {{cssxref("border-shape")}} of `circle(50%)` to create a circular border that neatly fits the content and background.
```

```css live-sample___basic-border-shape
p {
  width: fit-content;
  aspect-ratio: 1/1;
  border: 15px solid black;
  box-shadow: 5px 5px 10px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  border-shape: circle(50%);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("basic-border-shape", "100%", "240")}}

Note how the `border` and `box-shadow` neatly follow the defined shape.

### Basic `border-shape` fill usage

This example builds on the previous one, showing how to use `border-shape` in fill mode to create an irregular filled border.

The HTML is the same as in the previous example.

#### CSS

> The CSS is the same in the previous example, except that this time we color the border `hotpink`, and we include two `<basic-shape>` definitions inside the `border-shape` value. There's an outer rectangle that covers the whole area of the content, and an inner circle that is the same as in the previous example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSS is the same as in the previous example, except this time we color the border `hotpink`, and we include two `<basic-shape>` definitions inside the `border-shape` value. There's an outer rectangle that covers the whole area of the content and an inner circle that's the same as in the previous example.
```

```css live-sample___basic-border-shape-fill
p {
  width: fit-content;
  aspect-ratio: 1/1;
  border: 15px solid hotpink;
  box-shadow: 5px 5px 10px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  border-shape: rect(0% 100% 100% 0% round 20px) circle(50%);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("basic-border-shape-fill", "100%", "240")}}

> Note how this time, the border covers the area between the rectangle and the circle, and it adopts the color set in the `border` declaration.

Reviewer: so cool!

Author: It's a really fun feature to play with.

### Comparing `border-shape` values

> In this example, we allow you to set different `border-shape` values on an element, to allow you to compare and contrast them.

Reviewer: we should probably clarify "them" since we're comparing the visual outputs
```suggestion
In this example, we let you select from different `border-shape` values to apply to an element, so you can compare and contrast how they render.
```

#### HTML

> The HTML is similar the previous example, except that this time we include a bit more text in the `<p>` element, and we also include a {{htmlelement("select")}} element allowing you to choose different classes to apply to the `<p>` via JavaScript (we've hidden both the `<select>` and the JavaScript for brevity).

Reviewer: since we're hiding `<select>` and JavaScript, let's make it a separate sentence
```suggestion
The HTML is similar to that in the previous example, except this time we include a bit more text in the `<p>` element. We've also included a {{htmlelement("select")}} element so you can choose different classes to apply to the `<p>` via JavaScript (we've hidden both the `<select>` and the JavaScript for brevity).
```

```html live-sample___border-shape-select
<p>Fashion is something so ugly it has to be changed every 15 minutes.</p>
```

```html hidden live-sample___border-shape-select
<form>
  <label for="shape-select">Select border-shape type:</label>
  <br />
  <select id="shape-select">
    <option>circle</option>
    <option selected>ellipse</option>
    <option>inset</option>
    <option>path</option>
    <option>polygon</option>
    <option>rect</option>
    <option>shape</option>
    <option>two-polygons</option>
    <option>xywh</option>
  </select>
</form>
```

> The classes set different `border-shape` values on the `<p>` element. A `class` of `ellipse` is set on it to begin with, so that initially, it has an `ellipse()` `border-shape` applied to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The classes set different `border-shape` values on the `<p>` element. To begin with, a `class` of `ellipse` is set on the `<p>` element, so initially it has an `ellipse()` `border-shape`.
```

    curve to 0% 64.5% with 10.88% 99.75%/0% 83.25%,
    close
  );
}

.two-polygons {
  border-shape: polygon(
      0% 60%,
      0% 85%,
      8% 100%,
      18% 88%,
      30% 100%,
      42% 88%,
      55% 100%,
      68% 88%,
      80% 105%,
      86% 88%,
      91% 75%,
      101% 60%,
      93% 30%,
      86% 5%,
      75% 18%,
      65% 3%,
      52% 16%,
      40% 3%,
      27% 16%,
      15% 3%,
      5% 18%
    )
    polygon(
      0% 55%,
      0% 90%,
      6% 104%,
      17% 93%,
      30% 100%,
      43% 93%,
      56% 102%,
      69% 93%,
      81% 102%,
      88% 93%,
      94% 78%,
      100% 58%,
      94% 24%,
      88% -2%,
      76% 13%,
      64% -4%,
      51% 11%,
      39% -4%,
      26% 11%,
      13% -4%,
      3% 13%
    );
}

.xywh {
  border-shape: xywh(5% 5% 90% 90% round 20px);
}
```

```css hidden live-sample___border-shape-select
form {
  position: absolute;
  border: 2px solid black;
  background: white;
  padding: 5px;
  bottom: 0;
  right: 0;
}

form select {
  width: 100%;
  padding: 2px 5px;
  margin-top: 10px;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("border-shape-select", "100%", "350")}}

> Use your developer tools to inspect the `border-shape` values applied to the `<p>` element at any point, and edit them to get an idea of how the values work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select different options from the drop-down menu to see how the different border shapes render. At any point, feel free to use your browser's developer tools to inspect the `border-shape` values applied to the `<p>` element and edit them to get an idea of how the values work.
```

Author: I thought this paragraph needed an instructive sentence to start with, relating to the example's functionality, so I edited your suggestion to add one.

Reviewer: Yes! good catch

### Animating a `border-shape`

> This example demonstrates how it is possible to animate the `border-shape` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how you can animate the `border-shape` property.
```

#### HTML

> The same HTML `<p>` is used as in the previous example, except that this time, we've included a [`tabindex`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/tabindex) attribute so it can be focused via the keyboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same `<p>` element is used as in the previous example, except this time we've included a [`tabindex`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/tabindex) attribute so it can be focused via the keyboard.
```

```html live-sample___animate-border-shape
<p tabindex="0">

>   Fashion is something so ugly it has to be changed every 15 minutes.

Reviewer: Both here and in the "Comparing `border-shape` values" example section, could we pick something from https://github.com/mdn/shared-assets/blob/main/text/quotes.md for the p text?

Author: Awww, that's one of my favorite song lyrics, ever. But I can understand it if you feel that it's a bit political/confrontational. I've changed it to a Monty Python quote.

Reviewer: thank you! and sorry...

</p>
```

#### CSS

> This time, we apply a `polygon()` `border-shape` to the `<p>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we apply a `polygon()` `border-shape` to the `<p>`.
```

```css live-sample___animate-border-shape
p {
  width: 550px;
  border: 15px solid black;
  box-shadow: 5px 5px 10px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);

>   border-shape: polygon(

Reviewer: could this be a polygon with fewer points?
In this example, the same long list of numbers needs to be scrolled past twice.

I have the same comment in "Comparing border-shape values" section - to make the polygon coordinates fewer? and also use a shorter shape?

Author: It took me ages to work out those polygon shapes, so I don't really want to start editing them again, but I do understand your point.

To mitigate this issue, I have set those code blocks to `css-nolint`, and put all of the coordinate pairs on the same line. This makes them take up much less space, and it doesn't really affect the legibility of the example (understanding the shape syntax is not really the point anyway).

Reviewer: This is a good middle ground and looks much better. Thanks!

      0% 60%,
      0% 85%,
      8% 100%,
      18% 88%,
      30% 100%,
      42% 88%,
      55% 100%,
      68% 88%,
      80% 100%,
      86% 88%,
      90% 75%,
      100% 60%,
      90% 30%,
      85% 5%,
      75% 18%,
      65% 3%,
      52% 16%,
      40% 3%,
      27% 16%,
      15% 3%,
      5% 18%
    )
    view-box;
}
```

> We also set an {{cssxref("animation")}} on the `<p>` element's {{cssxref(":hover")}} and {{cssxref(":focus")}} states so that, when it is hovered or focused, it smoothy animates between two polygon border shapes for infinite iterations.

Reviewer: should we add "back and forth" to reflect the use of `alternate`
```suggestion
We also set an {{cssxref("animation")}} on the `<p>` element's {{cssxref(":hover")}} and {{cssxref(":focus")}} states, so that when the element is hovered or focused, it smoothly animates back and forth between two polygon border shapes for infinite iterations.
```

```css live-sample___animate-border-shape
p:hover,
p:focus {
  animation: morph 1s ease-in-out infinite alternate;
}

@keyframes morph {
  from {
    border-shape: polygon(
        0% 60%,
        0% 85%,
        8% 100%,
        18% 88%,
        30% 100%,
        42% 88%,
        55% 100%,
        68% 88%,
        80% 100%,
        86% 88%,
        90% 75%,
        100% 60%,
        90% 30%,
        85% 5%,
        75% 18%,
        65% 3%,
        52% 16%,
        40% 3%,
        27% 16%,
        15% 3%,
        5% 18%
      )
      view-box;
  }
  to {
    border-shape: polygon(
        0% 55%,
        0% 90%,
        6% 104%,
        17% 93%,
        30% 100%,
        43% 93%,
        56% 102%,
        69% 93%,
        81% 102%,
        88% 93%,
        94% 78%,
        100% 58%,
        94% 24%,
        88% -2%,
        76% 13%,
        64% -4%,
        51% 11%,
        39% -4%,
        26% 11%,
        13% -4%,
        3% 13%
      )
      view-box;
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("animate-border-shape", "100%", "240")}}

> Hover or focus the paragraph to see the animation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hover over or focus the paragraph to see the animation.
```

> ### Creating a jigsaw piece navigation menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a jigsaw-piece navigation menu
```

> In this example, we show how to use `border-shape` to create an irregular navigation menu example with each nav item shaped like a jigsaw piece.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we show how to use `border-shape` to create an irregular navigation menu with each nav item shaped like a jigsaw piece.
```

#### HTML

Our HTML is a fairly typical navigation menu — a list of links.

```html live-sample___jigsaw-example
<ul>
  <li><a href="#">One</a></li>
  <li><a href="#">Two</a></li>
  <li><a href="#">Three</a></li>
  <li><a href="#">Four</a></li>
</ul>
```

#### CSS

> There is a fair bit of CSS in this example; we have hidden some of the basic page setup code completely (as with previous examples), then we have split the remaining CSS into two sections. If you want to ignore most of the styling and just read about the code that is most relevant to the `border-shape` styles, jump to [Handling the border shape](#handling_the_border_shape).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a fair bit of CSS in this example; we've hidden some of the basic page setup code (as with previous examples) and split the remaining CSS into two sections. If you want to ignore most of the styling and just read about the code that is most relevant to the `border-shape` styles, jump to [Handling the border shape](#handling_the_border_shape).
```

```css hidden live-sample___jigsaw-example
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

html {
  height: 100%;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.2rem;
}

body {
  margin: 0;
  height: inherit;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}
```

> ##### Implementing the general nav styles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Applying the general nav styles
```

> First of all, we style our {{htmlelement("ul")}}, removing the default {{cssxref("list-style-type")}} and {{cssxref("padding")}}, and setting a {{cssxref("display")}} value of `flex` to lay out the contained {{htmlelement("li")}} elements in a row. We then set a {{cssxref("gap")}} value of `0` and apply a {{cssxref("transition")}} so that, when the `<ul>` state changes, a change in the `gap` value will smoothly animate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we style the {{htmlelement("ul")}} by removing the default {{cssxref("list-style-type")}} and {{cssxref("padding")}} and setting a {{cssxref("display")}} value of `flex` to lay out the contained {{htmlelement("li")}} elements in a row. We then set a {{cssxref("gap")}} value of `0` and apply a {{cssxref("transition")}}, so that when the `<ul>` state changes, a change in the `gap` value animates smoothly.
```

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
ul {
  list-style-type: none;
  padding: 0;
  display: flex;

>   gap: 0px;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  gap: 0;
```

  transition: gap 0.6s;
}
```

Next, we style the `<li>` elements. We want each nav item to be square, so we set an equal {{cssxref("width")}} and {{cssxref("height")}}.

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
li {
  width: 160px;
  height: 160px;
}
```

> Now we'll go on to style the {{htmlelement("a")}} elements inside the list items. We start off by removing the default {{cssxref("text-decoration")}} and setting the {{cssxref("color")}} to `black`. We then set a `width` and `height` of `100%` to make the `<a>` elements fill the full area of the `<li>` elements, then use [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Flexbox) to center their text horizontally and vertically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we style the {{htmlelement("a")}} elements inside the list items. We start by removing the default {{cssxref("text-decoration")}} and setting the {{cssxref("color")}} to `black`. We then set a `width` and `height` of `100%` to make the `<a>` elements fill the full area of the `<li>` elements, then use [flexbox](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Flexbox) to center their text horizontally and vertically.
```

> We then set {{cssxref("box-shadow")}} and {{cssxref("text-shadow")}} properties on the links, plus a `transition` so that any property value changes on state changes are animated smoothly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then set {{cssxref("box-shadow")}} and {{cssxref("text-shadow")}} properties on the links, plus a `transition` so that any property value changes are animated smoothly when the element's state changes.
```

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
a {
  text-decoration: none;
  color: black;
  width: 100%;
  height: 100%;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;

  box-shadow:
    2px 0px 2px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5),
    inset 3px 3px 3px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.5);
  text-shadow: 1px 1px 1px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  transition: all 0.6s;
}
```

We then give each jigsaw piece a different color:

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
li:nth-child(1) a {
  background-color: #2de1fc;
}

li:nth-child(2) a {
  background-color: #2afc98;
}

li:nth-child(3) a {
  background-color: #09e85e;
}

li:nth-child(4) a {
  background-color: #16c172;
}
```

##### Handling the border shape

> We set a downwards-pointing jigsaw piece `border-shape` on each odd-numbered `<a>` element, and an upwards-pointing jigsaw piece `border-shape` on each even-numbered `<a>` element, for some variety:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For variety, we've set a downwards-pointing jigsaw-piece `border-shape` on each odd-numbered `<a>` element and an upwards-pointing jigsaw-piece `border-shape` on each even-numbered `<a>` element:
```

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
li:nth-child(even) a {
  border-shape: shape(
      from 0% 0%,
      hline to 33%,
      arc by 33% 0% of 16% 20% small cw,
      hline to 100%,
      line to 100% 33%,
      arc by 0% 33% of 20% 16% small cw,
      line to 100% 100%,
      hline to 66%,
      arc by -33% 0% of 16% 20% small ccw,
      hline to 0%,
      line to 0% 66%,
      arc by 0% -33% of 20% 16% small ccw,
      close
    )
    content-box;
}

li:nth-child(odd) a {
  border-shape: shape(
      from 0% 0%,
      hline to 33%,
      arc by 33% 0% of 16% 20% small ccw,
      hline to 100%,
      line to 100% 33%,
      arc by 0% 33% of 20% 16% small cw,
      line to 100% 100%,
      hline to 66%,
      arc by -33% 0% of 16% 20% small cw,
      hline to 0%,
      line to 0% 66%,
      arc by 0% -33% of 20% 16% small ccw,
      close
    )
    content-box;
}
```

> This immediately creates an issue — the notches on the jigsaw pieces that extend out from the original `<a>` area aren't filled by their background colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This immediately creates an issue — the notches on the jigsaw pieces that extend out from the original `<a>` area aren't filled by the `<a>` elements' background colors.
```

There is a solution to this problem. We've deliberately included the `content-box` `<geometry-box>` value after each `shape()` function in the previous two rules. This means the shapes will be drawn relative to the elements' content boxes, and any applied `padding` won't be set inside the shape. Instead, the padding will be placed outside the shape, causing it to get smaller and forcing the background color to fill up the notches.

The required `padding` is set like so:

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
a {
  padding: 24px;
}
```

> [!NOTE]

> > You can see what the background problem looks like by inspecting the [live example](#result_5) later on in your DevTools and disabling the `padding` applied to the `<a>` elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can see what the background problem looks like by inspecting the [live example](#result_5) in your browser's developer tools and disabling the `padding` applied to the `<a>` elements.
```

> The set `padding` causes the jigsaw piece shapes to get smaller, so there are gaps between them. We want them to touch initially, so we set a large negative {{cssxref("margin-right")}} value on each list item to bring them together again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `padding` causes the jigsaw-piece shapes to get smaller, so there are gaps between them. We want them to touch initially, so we set a large negative {{cssxref("margin-right")}} value on each list item to bring them together:
```

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
li {
  margin-right: -47px;
}
```

> A side-effect of the `margin-right` is that all of the `<li>` items are moved to the right, so the nav menu is no longer centered. To fix this, we use [relative positioning](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Positioning#relative_positioning) to move the `<ul>` back to the left:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A side-effect of this `margin-right` setting is that all of the `<li>` items are moved to the right, so the nav menu is no longer centered. To fix this, we use [relative positioning](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Positioning#relative_positioning) to move the `<ul>` back to the left:
```

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
ul {
  position: relative;
  right: 23.5px;
}
```

> Finally, we apply some style updates on `:hover` and `:focus` that, when combined with the `transition` properties set earlier, produce some animated effects when the nav items are interacted with. We increase the `gap` set on the `<ul>` flexbox layout when it is hovered or focused. To handle the focus state, we use the {{cssxref(":has")}} pseudo-class to select the entire `<ul>` when any `<a>` inside it is focused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we apply some style updates on `:hover` and `:focus` that, when combined with the `transition` properties we set earlier, produce some animated effects on interaction with the nav items. We increase the `gap` set on the `<ul>` flexbox layout when it is hovered over or focused. To handle the focus state, we use the {{cssxref(":has")}} pseudo-class to select the entire `<ul>` when any `<a>` inside it is focused.
```

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
ul:hover,
ul:has(a:focus) {
  gap: 30px;
}
```

> We then set an increased `brightness` {{cssxref("filter")}}, {{cssxref("scale")}} factor, and outer `box-shadow` on the `<a>` elements themselves when they are hovered or focused, making them appear brighter and raised up when interacted with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then set an increased `brightness` {{cssxref("filter")}}, {{cssxref("scale")}} factor, and outer `box-shadow` on the `<a>` elements themselves when they are hovered over or focused, making them appear brighter and raised up on interaction.
```

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
a:hover,
a:focus {
  filter: brightness(1.2);
  scale: 1.1;
  box-shadow:
    5px 0px 10px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5),
    inset 3px 3px 3px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.5);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("jigsaw-example", "100%", "240")}}

> Hover or focus the nav items to see the animated effects. Note how naturally the different applied effects work with the applied `border-shape` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hover over or focus the nav items to see the animated effects. Note how naturally the different applied effects work with the `border-shape` values.
```

---
title: "`border-shape` CSS property"
short-title: border-shape
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/border-shape
page-type: css-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.properties.border-shape
sidebar: cssref
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`border-shape`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property defines an element's border shape using {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} values.

## Syntax

```css
/* Keyword */
border-shape: none;

/* Single <basic-shape> value */
border-shape: circle(50%);
border-shape: rect(10px 460px 130px 20px round 20px);
border-shape: shape(
  from 0% 0%,
  hline to 33%,
  arc by 33% 0% of 16% 20% small cw,
  hline to 100%,
  line to 100% 33%,
  arc by 0% 33% of 20% 16% small cw,
  line to 100% 100%,
  hline to 66%,
  arc by -33% 0% of 16% 20% small ccw,
  hline to 0%,
  line to 0% 66%,
  arc by 0% -33% of 20% 16% small ccw,
  close

> );

Reviewer: for the purpose of keeping the syntax block short, can we omit this `border-shape: shape()` example OR make it shorter?

Author: I've replaced it with a shorter one.

Reviewer: Cool

/* Two <basic-shape> values */
border-shape: circle(50%) ellipse(40% 30%);
border-shape: polygon(0% 0%, 0% 100%, 100% 0%)
  polygon(10% 10%, 10% 70%, 70% 10%);

/* <basic-shape> and <geometry-box> values */
border-shape: path(
    "M 35,95 C 35,50 60,15 100,20 C 120,5 160,5 180,22 C 200,5 250,5 270,22 C 295,5 340,5 360,22 C 395,10 440,35 440,75 C 455,90 450,120 430,128 C 400,145 360,145 330,130 C 300,145 260,145 230,130 C 200,145 160,145 130,130 C 80,142 35,120 35,95 Z"
  )

>   view-box;

Reviewer: same comment here - can we make it shorter? if not, can this be made the last example in this block, after the `border-shape: rect()` example?

Author: This one isn't as bad — at least it doesn't put each section of the command on a new line. I have moved it to the end, though.

border-shape: circle(50%) border-box ellipse(40% 30%) view-box;
border-shape: rect(5px 198px 189px 0px round 20px) view-box circle(50%);

/* Global values */
border-shape: inherit;
border-shape: initial;
border-shape: revert;
border-shape: revert-layer;
border-shape: unset;
```

The `border-shape` property may be specified using the keyword `none`, or one or two space-separated shape definitions, each consisting of a `<basic-shape>` value or a `<basic-shape>` value and a `<geometry-box>` value.

### Values

- `none`

>   - : Specifies that no border shape is defined. The initial value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Specifies that no border shape is defined. This is the initial value.
```

- {{cssxref("basic-shape")}}
  - : A function defining the shape of the border.
- [`<geometry-box>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#geometry-box) {{optional_inline}}
  - : A keyword defining the reference box for the border shape to be drawn relative to. If not included, the shape's reference geometry box defaults to:
    - `half-border-box` if a single basic shape is specified, which means that any defined border is drawn on top of the shape path, with the path going down its center.

>     - `border-box` for the first (outer) shape and `padding-box` for the second (inner) shape, if two basic shapes are specified. The border then occupies the area between the two shapes.

Reviewer: - Going by the phrasing generally used in "Values" section on other pages (that is, starting with the verb), it would be good to align them all - similar to the phrasing for `none`
- Side note (not a blocker for this PR): We don't have documentation for `half-border-box` in https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#keywords

```suggestion
- {{cssxref("basic-shape")}}
  - : Defines the shape of the border using one of the `<basic-shape>` functions.
- [`<geometry-box>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/box-edge#geometry-box) {{optional_inline}}
  - : Defines the reference box relative to which the border shape is drawn. If not included, the shape's reference geometry box defaults to:
    - `half-border-box` if a single basic shape is specified, which means that any defined border is drawn on top of the shape path, with the path going down its center.
    - `border-box` for the first (outer) shape and `padding-box` for the second (inner) shape if two basic shapes are specified. The border then occupies the area between the two shapes.
```

Author: Yeah, this is good. I've also added an entry for `half-border-box` to the `<box-edge>` page.

## Description

> The `border-shape` property enables you to set the border shape of any element (including inline and pseudo-elements) to any shape creatable by functions defined in the {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} value. This includes:

Reviewer: i worked this up to this version to 1) avoid repeating the name of property in the explanation and 2) fix "creatable"
```suggestion
The `border-shape` property enables you to define the shape of any element's border (including those of inline and pseudo-elements) using one of the {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} functions. These functions include:
```
do you want to add links to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Display/Block_and_inline_layout#elements_participating_in_an_inline_formatting_context and https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Pseudo-elements

Author: The suggestion is good, but I don't think I need to add links to those pages. They don't seem to list all properties that can be applied to inline/pseudo-elements?

- {{cssxref("basic-shape/inset","inset()")}}, {{cssxref("basic-shape/rect","rect()")}}, and {{cssxref("basic-shape/xywh","xywh()")}}: Provide different ways to define basic rectangle shapes.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/circle","circle()")}}: Defines circle shapes.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/ellipse","ellipse()")}}: Defines ellipse shapes.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/path","path()")}}: Defines any kind of shape using [SVG path](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Reference/Element/path) string syntax. SVG path syntax has limitations — it can only use pixel values and it has to be defined as a single string, so custom properties can't be included via {{cssxref("var()")}}. It is advised to use `shape()` instead.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}}: Defines any kind of polygon shape via pairs of vertex coordinates. If your desired shape includes smooth curves, you are advised to use `shape()`.

> - {{cssxref("basic-shape/shape","shape()")}}: Defines any kind of shape. The syntax of `shape()` is more CSS-compatible than that of `path()`, and solves its shortcomings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/path","path()")}}: Defines any kind of shape using [SVG path](/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Reference/Element/path) string syntax. SVG path syntax has limitations — it can use only pixel values and the path has to be defined as a single string, so custom properties can't be included via {{cssxref("var()")}}. You are advised to use `shape()` instead.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/polygon","polygon()")}}: Defines any kind of polygon via pairs of vertex coordinates. If your desired shape includes smooth curves, you are advised to use `shape()`.
- {{cssxref("basic-shape/shape","shape()")}}: Defines any kind of shape. The syntax of `shape()` is more CSS-compatible than that of `path()` and solves its shortcomings.
```

> When a `border-shape` is applied to an element, properties such as {{cssxref("border")}}, {{cssxref("box-shadow")}}, and {{cssxref("outline")}} defined on the element will follow the shape of the border.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you apply the `border-shape` property to an element, properties such as {{cssxref("border")}}, {{cssxref("box-shadow")}}, and {{cssxref("outline")}} defined on the element follow the shape of the border.
```

```css
border-shape: rect(5px 198px 189px 0px round 20px);
border-bottom: 30px dashed blue;
border-left: 40px dotted hotpink;
border-right: 50px double yellow;
```

The rendered box will have a rectangular border with rounded corners. The border style will be `solid`, as other styles are ignored. The border width and color will be `40px` and `hotpink`, because the `border-left` property applies styles to the inline start edge (assuming that the page has a horizontal {{cssxref("writing-mode")}}) and that is the first edge with border styles applied in the browser's priority list described earlier.

### Interaction with `border-radius` and `corner-shape`

The {{cssxref("border-radius")}} and {{cssxref("corner-shape")}} properties are incompatible with `border-shape`. When a `border-shape` is set on an element, any set `border-radius` is ignored, therefore `corner-shape` will also have no effect. The `border-shape` and `border-radius`/`corner-shape` properties have different effects, and are used separately.

If you want to use shaped corners in a `border-shape`, you will have to draw them directly as part of the shape.

> ### Comparison between `border-shape` and `clip-path`

Reviewer: or:
```suggestion
### `border-shape` versus `clip-path`
```

  border-shape: circle(50%);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("basic-border-shape", "100%", "240")}}

Note how the `border` and `box-shadow` neatly follow the defined shape.

### Basic `border-shape` fill usage

This example builds on the previous one, showing how to use `border-shape` in fill mode to create an irregular filled border.

The HTML is the same as in the previous example.

#### CSS

The CSS is the same in the previous example, except that this time we color the border `hotpink`, and we include two `<basic-shape>` definitions inside the `border-shape` value. There's an outer rectangle that covers the whole area of the content, and an inner circle that is the same as in the previous example.

```css live-sample___basic-border-shape-fill
p {
  width: fit-content;
  aspect-ratio: 1/1;
  border: 15px solid hotpink;
  box-shadow: 5px 5px 10px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5);
  border-shape: rect(0% 100% 100% 0% round 20px) circle(50%);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("basic-border-shape-fill", "100%", "240")}}

Note how this time, the border covers the area between the rectangle and the circle, and it adopts the color set in the `border` declaration.

> ### Comparison between different shape values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Comparing `border-shape` values
```

```css live-sample___animate-border-shape
p:hover,
p:focus {
  animation: morph 1s ease-in-out infinite alternate;
}

@keyframes morph {
  from {
    border-shape: polygon(
        0% 60%,
        0% 85%,
        8% 100%,
        18% 88%,
        30% 100%,
        42% 88%,
        55% 100%,
        68% 88%,
        80% 100%,
        86% 88%,
        90% 75%,
        100% 60%,
        90% 30%,
        85% 5%,
        75% 18%,
        65% 3%,
        52% 16%,
        40% 3%,
        27% 16%,
        15% 3%,
        5% 18%
      )
      view-box;
  }
  to {
    border-shape: polygon(
        0% 55%,
        0% 90%,
        6% 104%,
        17% 93%,
        30% 100%,
        43% 93%,
        56% 102%,
        69% 93%,
        81% 102%,
        88% 93%,
        94% 78%,
        100% 58%,
        94% 24%,
        88% -2%,
        76% 13%,
        64% -4%,
        51% 11%,
        39% -4%,
        26% 11%,
        13% -4%,
        3% 13%
      )
      view-box;
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("animate-border-shape", "100%", "240")}}

Hover or focus the paragraph to see the animation.

> ### A jigsaw piece navigation menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a jigsaw piece navigation menu
```

---
title: "`border-shape` CSS property"
short-title: border-shape
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/border-shape
page-type: css-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.properties.border-shape
sidebar: cssref
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`border-shape`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property enables using {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} values to define a container's border shape.

Reviewer: - I'm suggesting replacing "enables using" to be more direct in the intro about what the property does..used your phrasing but switched it around
- Also, should container -> element?

```suggestion
The **`border-shape`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property defines an element's border shape using {{cssxref("basic-shape")}} values.
```

## Syntax

```css
/* Keyword */
border-shape: none;

/* Single <basic-shape> value */
border-shape: circle(50%);
border-shape: rect(10px 460px 130px 20px round 20px);
border-shape: shape(
      from 0% 0%,
      hline to 33%,
      arc by 33% 0% of 16% 20% small cw,
      hline to 100%,
      line to 100% 33%,
      arc by 0% 33% of 20% 16% small cw,
      line to 100% 100%,
      hline to 66%,
      arc by -33% 0% of 16% 20% small ccw,
      hline to 0%,
      line to 0% 66%,
      arc by 0% -33% of 20% 16% small ccw,
      close

>     )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    );
```

/* Two <basic-shape> values */
border-shape: circle(50%) ellipse(40% 30%);
border-shape:
    polygon(0% 0%, 0% 100%, 100% 0%)
    polygon(10% 10%, 10% 70%, 70% 10%);

> }

Reviewer: looks like a stray
```suggestion

```

/* <basic-shape> and <geometry-box> values */
border-shape: path(
      "M 35,95 C 35,50 60,15 100,20 C 120,5 160,5 180,22 C 200,5 250,5 270,22 C 295,5 340,5 360,22 C 395,10 440,35 440,75 C 455,90 450,120 430,128 C 400,145 360,145 330,130 C 300,145 260,145 230,130 C 200,145 160,145 130,130 C 80,142 35,120 35,95 Z"
    )
    view-box;
border-shape: circle(50%) border-box ellipse(40% 30%) view-box;
border-shape: rect(5px 198px 189px 0px round 20px) view-box circle(50%);

/* Global values */
border-shape: inherit;
border-shape: initial;
border-shape: revert;
border-shape: revert-layer;
border-shape: unset;
```

The `border-shape` property may be specified using the keyword `none`, or one or two space-separated shape definitions, each consisting of a `<basic-shape>` value or a `<basic-shape>` value and a `<geometry-box>` value.

### Values

- `none`

>   - : The initial value. Specifies that no border shape is defined.

Reviewer: I would swap the two sentences to first describe what the value does

Author: done

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
ul:hover,
ul:has(a:focus) {
  gap: 30px;
}
```

We then set an increased `brightness` {{cssxref("filter")}}, {{cssxref("scale")}} factor, and outer `box-shadow` on the `<a>` elements themselves when they are hovered or focused, making them appear brighter and raised up when interacted with.

```css live-sample___jigsaw-example
a:hover,
a:focus {
  filter: brightness(1.2);
  scale: 1.1;
  box-shadow:
    5px 0px 10px rgb(0 0 0 / 0.5),
    inset 3px 3px 3px rgb(255 255 255 / 0.5);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("jigsaw-example", "100%", "240")}}

Hover or focus the nav items to see the animated effects. Note how naturally the different applied effects work with the applied `border-shape` values.

```css hidden live-sample___basic-border-shape live-sample___basic-border-shape-fill live-sample___border-shape-select live-sample___animate-border-shape live-sample___jigsaw-example
@supports not (border-shape: circle(50%)) {
  body::before {
    content: "Your browser does not support the 'border-shape' property.";
    background-color: wheat;
    padding: 1rem 0;
    text-align: center;

>     padding: 1rem 0;

Reviewer: already on l877
```suggestion

```
